Chgill-msft-transitive-dependencies-update (#11429)
NuGet/Home: proposed/2020/Transitive-Dependencies.md

Finally, selecting a transitive dependency will provide the user the ability to “Install” the package as you normally would a top-level dependency. This will promote the transitive dependency to a top-level dependency, and the transitive dependency will now be placed in the top-level packages list instead.

#### Detailed design

> **Collapsible vertical tabs:** Direct and transitive packages will be grouped under collapsible tabs 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Collapsible, vertical list group:** Direct and transitive packages will be grouped under collapsible list group
```

Reviewer: To not confuse the list groups with the tabs at the top of the PMUI, what if we rename all references to these tabs to "list group" instead or alternatively "list category"?

> * **Labels:** Tabs will be labeled “Top-level packages” and “Transitive packages” respectively 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Labels:** List groups will be labeled “Top-level packages” and “Transitive packages” respectively 
```

> * **Count:** Tabs will display the number of packages in the group 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Count:** List groups will display the number of packages in the group 
```

> * **Default state:** Transitive packages tab will be collapsed by default 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Default state:** Transitive packages list group will be collapsed by default 
```

> * **Warnings:** Tab headers will surface a warning icon for vulnerabilities and deprecations - see “Vulnerabilities and deprecation” section for relevant details 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Warnings:** List group headers will surface a warning icon for vulnerabilities and deprecations - see “Vulnerabilities and deprecation” section for relevant details 
```

> **Package items:** The packages under the “Transitive packages” tab will have the same appearance/design as the “Top level packages” (Id, description, author, versions on the right, etc.) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Package items:** The packages under the “Transitive packages” list group will have the same appearance/design as the “Top level packages” (Id, description, author, versions on the right, etc.) 
```

* **Status overlays:** Transitive packages will not show an “Update available” icon (upward arrow) or “Latest version installed” icon (check mark) - only directly installed packages will 
* **Tooltip:** Hovering over the package list item will show a pop-up that displays how the transitive dependency originated & what top-level package(s) are bringing it in. 

> **Search:** Searching for a package ID will filter the packages shown in both tabs in the same way. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Search:** Searching for a package ID will filter the packages shown in both list groups in the same way. 
```

* Searching for “Microsoft” will show all relevant filtered results for both the top level and transitive packages 

> * If one tab or the other is collapsed, they will remain collapsed on search 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If one list group or the other is collapsed, they will remain collapsed on search 
```

* The counter for the number of packages will change to reflect the number of packages being shown when filtered with a search query 

**Package details window:** The package details window will be the exact same for transitive and top level packages. 

> * Similar to top-level packages, users will have the ability to “Install” or “Update” the transitive package to make it a top-level package of the desired version. 

Reviewer: I think we want to have the Install button but not the Update button. The motivation for this would be that transitive packages aren't "installed" in the traditional sense, so they can be installed as top-level packages, but not managed as a top-level package by being able to update it. Transitive packages won't have the update icon in the packages list and they won't be shown in the Updates tab either.

Reviewer 2: Install is probably the best wording here. "Promote" is another. But the idea is that we keep the same label name of just "install" should be fine. i.e. you would "install" a transitive package now as a top-level/direct package

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest `Install`, but we should also consider some sort of a tool tip that explains what the hell would happen :)

> * PackageReference & Package.Config: PackageReference will be the priority for this feature – Packages.Config won’t be considered unless it comes for free with the work for PR. 

Reviewer: Packages.config works differently in that all packages are top-level packages and must be directly installed. Are there specific parts of this feature that would be available for packages.config that we should consider if we get it for free or something we should specifically not show. For example, for packages.config, is it okay to show the "Top-level packages" list group and "Transitive dependencies" list groups even though the top-level would have all the packages and transitive dependencies would have 0? Or would we want to suppress this grouping for packages.config projects?

Reviewer 2: We should just scope this for `PackageReference`. I do not believe we will get anything for free, even with tools that help identify the likely "top-level" packages of package.config projects.

Reviewer 2: Should just hide the grouping for packages.config and only show the top-level pane.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @JonDouglas. 

Solve one problem at a time (well, promise solving one problem at a time :D )

**Browse, Installed, and Updates tab behavior:**
* **Installed:** Transitive dependencies will only be shown and managed in the Installed tab 
* **Browse:** We will not surface transitive dependencies in the Browse tab. Transitively installed packages will not have an “Installed latest version” check mark. 

> * **Updates:** We will not show transitive dependencies in the Updates tab. This is because users shouldn’t typically update transitive dependencies outside of extenuating circumstances like vulnerabilities and deprecation. 

Reviewer: ``This is because users shouldn’t typically update transitive dependencies outside of extenuating circumstances like vulnerabilities and deprecation. ``

And if they did, it would be by "Installing" the transitive dependency as a top-level package to manually manage it.

- A: The NuGet client team should own this work. They are familiar with the Visual Studio Package Manager UI & concepts of transitive dependencies.

- Q: Should packages.config be considered in this work?

> - A: Since packages.config is based on top-level packages only, it will just use its existing experience by placing all packages in the top-level packages section unless the it's technically convenient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A: Since packages.config is based on top-level packages only, it will just use its existing experience by placing all packages in the top-level packages section unless it's technically convenient.
```

Reviewer: Removed extra word "the" from the sentence.
